# Cryptocurrency Exploratory Data Analysis
## Berkeley Data Analytics Bootcamp – Project 1
### Josefina de Solminihac, Tristian Lozano and David Levy

This project examines data retrieved from the Kaggle and CryptoCompare APIs, and explores various relationships between cryptocurrencies.

The first task undertaken was an aggregation of volume and market capitalization data from CryptoCompare to determine the most-traded and highest-value coins for the 24 hour period preceeding when the data was pulled. Documentation submitted by Josefina thoroughly defines the procedures used to completed this portion of the project and accompanying visualizations. Josefina's portion of the project is summarized by slides 2 through 5 in the `presentation_slides` directory.

The second portion of the project, which examines open, close, high and low market data for two distinct groups of 25 cryptocurrencies was conducted by David. Groups were formed by determining (1) 25 cryptocurrencies with the highest trading volume between October 28, 2022 and November 25, 2022; and (2) 25 cryptocurrencies with the largest daily average return between October 28, 2022 and November 25, 2022. The timeframe was chosen such that the November 11, 2022 FTX collapse defines the center of the window. 5x5 grids were constructed to examine structural differences in the high/low time series data between the two currency groups. Candlestick charts were constructed to better define the respective relationships between open, close, high and low values for all currencies. Correlation maps helped guide a causative investigation for differences in price fluctuations within the high volume currency group as well as to confirm the idea thst the high-return group had little to no observable correlation pattern. One-way ANOVA tests were conducted to determine whether significant differences in mean daily average return values exist within groups for the timeframe in question. Limitations include unsubstantiated assumptions of independence, normality and homoscedasticity, as well as the fact that omnibus tests like ANOVA require additional investigation in order to uncover specific relationships between variables.

The third portion of the project considered data collected from the Kaggle API, and looked specifically at the relationship between Bitcoin and Ethereum. The analysis was conducted by Tristian. Market capitalization and volume data were collected and visualized as binned frequency counts of trading volume ranges. A student's t-test was used to elucidate the statistical relationship between trading volumes of Bitcoin and Ethereum.